Continue to build the Niakofa Character Engine. use the documents and Zip file to improve and enhance the Niakofa app. Read document and zip in full . Keep until I tell you we are done today with all phases.This token will only be used once and deleted right after the session GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN Make the Niakofa Legacy Rgp Game Production Ready! Read MemoryMD. My repo is public, github is connected to bolt. Verify before making changes to the code in repo. Eventuate the actual Niakofa app before you push. First review and understand Legacy Mode features in the Niakofa app before editing. https://github.com/niakofa-cmyk/Niakofa Use these documents to continue the build Legacy Mode with these features and components intact. review and understand the niakofa app before editing code. Us these images and documents to build the improved and enhanced Niakofa Legacy Mode and wire end to end. Use these documents or zip file to improve and enhance the Naikofa app. Read all documents and zips in full if there are any uploaded, line by line. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. Create or find reference file to Niakofa Legacy to save and keep these images and Documents for reference. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push and independently confirmed via gitPull that GitHub's main now matches local main exactly. https://github.com/niakofa-cmyk/Niakofa GitHub is confirmed — origin/main, migrate to github script. Stage, Then push to repo Verify and fix and address all insure in documents. read them in full