
 Read. Memorymd read. Replete godfathered. I think you mad yourself another replitmd last time by mistake? Verify Nia is disable on the Backend and that the Niakofa app is picking up the correct build for all users! Continue to update this app Now. Review the app and documents. Fix, and address each and every issue. . Think carefully before editing. Understand the App and the vision and mission before you edit code. Review the code before you edit code. We are using Mapbox . Verify and Ensure your work! Improve and enhance the infrastructure of the Niakofa app. Verify that you have verified each and every issue. And have addressed each and every issue. Verify and Ensure that Nia ai is Disable to all users by default to the Niakofa app. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Apply database migrations so the app works end to end in th replit envirinmnt, and verivy the railway nia service buils succeeds end to end after the dokerfile path fix , and Harden the Nia service Docker image to run without root privileges. 
Verify and ensure all pages are working efficiently and effectively. Fix, improve and enhance the Community Page and all of its features. Fix the Map/screen alignment issue! Verify and ensure The Admin Page is accessible. Should we change or not use any of your live test account, because they are Not working in a live account? Verify and ensure that the New App Build Is Live with all of the newest improvements and enhancements!