Verify that you have implemented this into the Niakofa app. Ensure and Verify that you have Wired every route and GPS, and Navigation, Geo triangulated directions all wired end to end for the Sankofa Bird Marker. Is the Niakofa app infrastructure better the yours Replit? If Not, Improve and enhance the backend build, and infustructure of the Niakofa app to rival/Match Replit's own backend build and infrastructure or better! Stop from Flashing empty and vanishing data throughout the entire app. Verify, Fix, Improve and enhance and address all issues in the document. Read documents in full. . Read all zips in full. Verify that you have used these documents and zip files to improve and enhance the Niakofa app. Make the Niakofa app production ready! update this app Now. Review the app . Fix, and address each and every issue. . Think carefully before editing. Understand the App and the vision and mission before you edit code. Review the code before you edit code. We are using Mapbox . Verify and Ensure your work! Improve and enhance the infrastructure of the Niakofa app. Verify that you have verified each and every issue. And have addressed each and every issue. Verify and Ensure that Nia ai is Disable to all users and Pages by default to the Niakofa app. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push and independently confirmed via gitPull that GitHub's main now matches local main exactly. https://github.com/niakofa-cmyk/Niakofa