
The gap — and it's a significant one
Pay-it-forward and Community Pool money never becomes real money for the helper.
Every pool-fronted payment, every guaranteed minimum, and every direct pay-it-forward pledge from the webhook only ever does one thing to the helper's balance:

await tx.update(usersTable).set({ benevolence_wallet: sql`${usersTable.benevolence_wallet} + ${amount}` })
benevolence_wallet is a plain integer column in Postgres — it is never the destination of a stripe.transfers.create() call anywhere in the codebase. I grepped every call site of transfers.create (3 total: stripe.ts, requests.ts, payout-worker.ts) and all three are hard-gated to payment_type === "immediate". The wallet page's own copy confirms this is intentional as currently built:
"Immediate-pay earnings stay in your goodwill balance until you connect a bank account via Stripe."
That sentence is actually only true for the "immediate" case — for pay-it-forward and pool-fronted earnings, there is no code path at all, connected bank account or not, that ever transfers benevolence_wallet to Stripe. It's a permanent in-app number with no cash-out route.
This directly undercuts your core vision. The whole point of the Community Pool — "helpers get paid immediately, a livable wage, just for helping" — is implemented as pay-it-forward's flagship feature, but the payment it produces is not withdrawable. A helper who only ever does pay-it-forward tasks (which is presumably most of them, since that's the community-service model you described) accumulates a growing benevolence_wallet balance they can never turn into rent money.
Recommendation
This is the single highest-priority fix relative to your stated vision. Two ways to close it:
1. Cash-out endpoint (minimal change): add POST /wallet/cashout — take a helper's benevolence_wallet balance (or a requested portion), verify payouts_enabled, and fire stripe.transfers.create to zero out (or decrement) the wallet, using the same idempotency-key and retry-worker pattern already built for immediate-pay. The pool-fronting and repayment bookkeeping stays exactly as-is; this only adds the missing last mile.
2. Auto-payout on wallet credit (matches "paid immediately" framing better): instead of a manual cash-out button, trigger a Stripe transfer automatically inside payHelperFromPool/the pledge webhook the same way the immediate-pay path already does, with the existing BullMQ retry queue as the safety net.
Either way, you'll also want a pool.ts/Stripe-side answer to: where does the money the pool transfers out of actually come from on Stripe's side — right now communityPoolLedgerTable is a pure accounting ledger; nothing shows the Pool holding actual Stripe balance to fund those transfers (donations go into it via /pool/donate, but I didn't find a Stripe Custom/platform balance underpinning payouts — worth confirming with a real test transfer before this ships, since "insufficient funds" on Stripe's side is a different failure mode than the in-app "insufficient" pool-balance check that's already handled).


add a SESSION_SECRET cross-service validator to the admin bootstrap endpoint — so running POST /admin/bootstrap can also verify the secret is set on nia-service via a health-ping and warn if it's missing or mismatched. 
(building out business-account features (bulk requests, invoicing) beyond the current schema.)

What I found that's actually broken
Nia's model strings are wrong in six places and this will cause live API failures. The code calls "claude-haiku-4-5" (in chat.ts, continuous-learning-worker.ts, crisis-followup-worker.ts, neighborhoods.ts, and crisis-resources.ts) — but the real, current Haiku model ID requires a date suffix: claude-haiku-4-5-20251001. Without it, those calls will error. That's the model powering fast tasks like the check-in follow-ups and crisis resource matching — worth fixing today. (claude-sonnet-4-5 and claude-opus-4-6, used elsewhere, are technically valid, though several are now a generation or two behind current models like Sonnet 5 / Opus 4.8.)
Prior sessions already found and are tracking real bugs, per your own AUDIT_SUMMARY and ACTION_PLAN docs — e.g. push notifications missing a notifType tag (so users' notification preferences are silently ignored), and a documented-but-unenforced max_travel_miles check that's since been patched. Worth confirming those patches actually landed and are tested, since the docs show a "fix committed, tests not yet written" pattern in several places.
Gaps against your stated vision that I don't see covered yet
* "Livable wage" guarantee / minimum-pay logic: the guaranteed-minimum mechanism exists, but I didn't find logic that ties payout size to something like local minimum wage or cost-of-living — right now it looks like a flat/configurable minimum, not a "livable wage" formula.
* Legal-task scope enforcement: you said "almost any legal task" — I didn't see explicit category/legality guardrails (e.g., blocking requests for tasks requiring licensing, like transporting minors or medical care) beyond general content moderation.
* Multi-county/national expansion path: the schema (county, state fields) supports it, but seed data and resources are Tarrant-County-specific — expansion to other counties looks like real work, not a config flag.
* Helper earnings dashboard / tax reporting (1099s, annual totals) — didn't see this, and if helpers are earning real income regularly, this becomes a real requirement, not a nice-to-have.


wire /analyze-image into the request-creation flow (e.g., "snap a photo of what needs fixing, Nia will describe it to nearby helpers") (orphaned image-analysis endpoint)
Gaps and recommendations
1. PIF pledge cap contradicts "any time, even 2 years." requests.ts blocks a requester from posting a new pay-it-forward request once they have 3 unpaid completed PIF requests, and hard-blocks anyone with a pledge marked defaulted (auto-set after 90 days unpaid, per code comments — the actual default-marking worker wasn't found in the repo under an obvious name and should be verified deployed). This is sound anti-abuse design, but it directly conflicts with your stated "even 2 years later" promise — a requester who's genuinely slow-but-honest could get locked out of asking for more help before they've had the chance to repay on their own timeline. Recommendation: either raise the cap, exempt users with an active scheduled_payment on file (they've already committed to a date), or make the 90-day default window configurable per requester history/trust score rather than fixed.
2. No requester-side trust signal. Helpers have trust_score, helper_status, tiers, and identity verification. Requesters have none of the equivalent — no visible signal of "reliably pays it forward" vs "chronically defaults." For a platform whose core promise to helpers is "you will be paid," a requester reputation score (repayment rate, average time-to-repay) would materially strengthen the trust helpers place in accepting PIF work, and would let the pool's risk model (and county sponsors deciding how much to fund) be smarter than a flat cap.
3. No livable-wage guarantee for immediate-pay jobs. The guaranteed minimum only fires for pay_it_forward and goodwill payment types (per the completion handler's explicit payment_type !== "immediate" gate). An immediate-pay job priced below the $15/hr-equivalent floor by the requester gets no top-up — a helper doing a longer immediate job for a low flat fee isn't protected by the same wage floor goodwill/PIF helpers get. If "livable wage for every helper, every time" is truly the north star, this asymmetry should be closed — either enforce a minimum price at request-creation time for immediate jobs, or extend the pool top-up to cover the gap there too.
4. Pool solvency is the single point of failure for the whole promise. Every mechanism above — instant payment, livable wage, "paid everyday just by helping" — depends entirely on the Community Pool having money. The /pool/stats endpoint already computes a real 30-day runway metric, which is smart, but there's no automatic response when runway gets short beyond an admin push alert. Recommendation: consider auto-throttling new PIF request creation (or reducing the guaranteed-minimum floor) when runway drops below a threshold, rather than letting the pool run dry and helpers get queued indefinitely in pool_pending_minimums.
5. Sponsor/donor discovery is invisible to requesters and the public. /pool/stats and /pool/ledger are public and transparent (good — this is exactly the kind of trust signal a mutual-aid platform needs for legitimacy with counties and donors), but there's no page surfacing "here are the counties/businesses currently funding this" or a leaderboard-style recognition for sponsors the way helpers get one. If part of the vision is treating sponsor participation (especially county government) as a civic-pride, recruitable thing, a public sponsor-recognition surface would help.
6. "Any legal task" is enforced only by a heuristic content-moderation filter plus a manual admin flagged-queue — there's no explicit allow/deny category list beyond the sensitive-category (childcare/medical/senior-care) waiver gate. Given your "almost any legal task" framing, it's worth an explicit categories taxonomy with per-category rules (some categories might need licensing checks you don't currently model, e.g. anything resembling professional trade work).
Are all the functions verified working?
Yes, with one caveat. I traced the full money path end-to-end: request creation → claim → complete → pool front/guaranteed-minimum payout → Stripe transfer with 5-retry exponential backoff on failure → webhook-driven pledge repayment → pool replenishment → FIFO backfill of queued minimums. Every step has idempotency guards (status-transition WHERE clauses, unique partial indexes on request_id, advisory locks on pool debits) that I checked line-by-line and found correctly implemented — this is unusually careful money-handling code for the size of the codebase. The one item I could not verify directly in this pass is the pledge-default worker referenced by code comments in requests.ts (pledge_status defaulted-after-90-days) — it wasn't discoverable under the filenames I searched, so I'd recommend confirming it's actually deployed and running rather than just referenced in a comment, since it's load-bearing for gap #1 above.

add automated CI-style smoke tests that hit the live API server's key endpoints (auth, requests, pool) after every deploy to catch regressions before users do