
Read Replit_GodfatherMd move bottom menu hamburger icon to the left corner side of the screen with the Map settings, Its overlapping the map navigation feature buttons.Now replace the Bottom menu hamburger tab with this uploaded png image bird icon. Then, Remove the Search this area button on the Helper Map mode. Keep the feature and icon, just remove the search this area button. Also in Community/requesters mode Map, Remove the Helpers and civics needs tab at the bottom of the map, and Place this in the topbar hamburger icon at the top of the map page.
Stop from Flashing empty and vanishing data throughout the entire app. Verify, Fix, Improve and enhance and address all issues in the document. Read documents in full. . Read all zips in full. Verify that you have used these documents and zip files to improve and enhance the Niakofa app. Make the Niakofa app production ready! update this app Now. Review the app . Fix, and address each and every issue. . Think carefully before editing. Understand the App and the vision and mission before you edit code. Review the code before you edit code. We are using Mapbox . Verify and Ensure your work! Improve and enhance the infrastructure of the Niakofa app. Verify that you have verified each and every issue. And have addressed each and every issue. Verify and Ensure that Nia ai is Disable to all users and Pages by default to the Niakofa app. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push and independently confirmed via gitPull that GitHub's main now matches local main exactly