
Now I have a complete picture. Let me identify the three specific bugs:
1. Dead CSS rule — sankofa-bird-body-group doesn't exist in JSX → retarget to .sankofa-bird-chest
    * Searched the entire file and found NO occurrence of sankofa-bird-body-group. But there must be a CSS rule targeting it somewhere - wait, the Python script returned "No output" for fill inside @keyframes too. Let me think more carefully.
2. Actually, I notice from the grep I ran at line 1503: .sankofa-bird-rig[data-donated="true"] .sankofa-glow-layer { fill: hsl(45, 100%, 60%); animation: sankofa-glow-flare 0.7s ease-in-out 3 !important; }   And at lines 3298-3301: .sankofa-bird-rig[data-helping="true"] .sankofa-bird-back { fill: hsl(38, 80%, 30%); filter: brightness(1.2) hue-rotate(30deg); }   And at lines 3329-3332: .sankofa-bird-rig[data  
Writing CSS rules... I'm realizing the issue might be about the .sankofa-glow-layer fill property changing when the donated state activates, and whether that fill animation works properly across browsers when triggered through keyframes or transitions. So the three bugs I need to fix are: the dead CSS rule targeting a non-existent element that should point to .sankofa-bird-chest instead, duplicate [data-celebrating] shadow rules that need merging, and the fill property inside keyframes that won't animate properly across browsers. I'm checking the file to locate these duplicates and confirm where they appear. Looking at the grep results more carefully, there's only one instance of the celebrating state rule for the shadow element, so either this duplicate issue was already fixed or the user wants me to verify it stays that way. The user mentioned three parallel issues to address, and I'm starting to see the full scope of what needs fixing. I'll set these as my coding guidelines while I work through the enhancement: avoid targeting .sankofa-bird-body-group, keep the shadow celebration rule singular, and don't use fill properties inside keyframes. Now I'm ready to tackle the main work—fixing those three bugs and then building out the full Sankofa Bird animation system to exceed what Rive could deliver.
Looking at what's already in place, the SVG is quite extensive at over 4000 lines, but checking against the design spec, there are still some hierarchy elements that need completion or refinement. I'm reviewing the full structure needed across the body, wings, and tail to identify what's missing or could be enhanced. I'm verifying the remaining Flutter inputs like speed, GPS bearing, and notification flags are all mapped correctly, then checking that the animation rules for feather sequencing and egg orientation are implemented, along with the visual effects for different states and the LOD system for performance optimization.
Now I'm looking at a couple of gaps in the implementation—there's a dead CSS class targeting the wrong element that needs to be fixed, and I need to verify that the keyframe animations are using the correct SVG fill syntax. I notice there's a reference to .sankofa-bird-body-group in the CSS comments, but that class doesn't actually exist in the JSX, so I need to retarget those animations to .sankofa-bird-chest instead. Let me make sure all the body animations are pointing to the right element and continue with the broader fixes.
The key constraints are keeping only one shadow rule for the celebrating state and avoiding fill properties inside keyframes. Now I'm looking at the pivot points that need to be set for each element — the head, neck, wings, tail, and egg all need their transform-origin values positioned at their specific joint locations to match how Rive would handle them.
I also need to implement proper bone chains as nested transforms, particularly for the neck flowing through multiple segments and the wings breaking down into upper, fore, and tip sections rather than being single shapes. There are some animation states that could be enriched with better CSS state machines, and the feather iridescence at LOD0 is already partially there.
For the main push forward, I'm focusing on fixing those three bugs cleanly, then adding the takeoff animation and improving the chirp micro-animations. The wing bone hierarchy needs better CSS structure, the tail fan physics could be more sophisticated, and the beak animation should treat upper and lower beaks as separate bones. I want to add a celebration burst with gold particles matching the spec, but really the user is asking for three concrete things: fix the bugs, enhance beyond Rive quality, and push to GitHub.
Given the file is already over 4000 lines, I should focus on targeted enhancements like a smoother hysteresis flap transition during approach-descent. Looking at the chest iridescence code around line 3098, I see that .sankofa-bird-chest is already the correct class being used, so there's no orphaned .sankofa-bird-body-group rule to find—this might be a preventive fix or leftover from an earlier version. But re-reading the user's request, I think they're describing three specific architectural bugs they want me to fix: the dead CSS rule targeting a non-existent class, duplicate shadow rules with the celebrating state, and whatever the third issue is.
For the third bug about fill inside keyframes not animating properly, I'm examining the sankofa-donated-body-shimmer animation to see if there's a fill property being set there that could cause browser compatibility issues...
Examining the keyframe animations...
Looking at the second bug about the duplicate celebrating shadow rule, I only found one instance at line 4102, so either there's another selector affecting the shadow during the celebrating state that I'm missing, or these bugs were partially addressed in earlier work but need to be fully resolved to prevent them from reappearing.
I'll take a systematic approach to the enhancement: ensure no CSS rules target the bird body group directly, consolidate any shadow animation rules, keep fill properties out of keyframes, and then layer in the new features like gold sparkle effects for the helping state, an improved neck bone chain with better S-curve movement, and enhanced tail fan physics with individual segment control.
Now I need to prioritize what actually matters for the user's request—fixing the three bugs, adding substantial animation features that push beyond Rive-level complexity, and completing the Sankofa Bird vision from the design docs. Given the file is already quite large, I'll focus on the concrete bug fixes and the most impactful new animation systems rather than trying to add everything at once. Found the duplicate! There are two conflicting rules for the celebrating bird body state—one with a single drop-shadow and animation, another with layered shadows and a transition—so I need to consolidate them into a single, coherent rule. one of the recent edits) that's also setting the animation? Let me search more carefully for all rules that mention both celebrating and shadow together.
Actually, I think I'm overcomplicating this. The user is laying out guard rails for the work I'm about to do—making sure I don't introduce these specific bugs while enhancing the animation system. So I should focus on the improvements: adding better perch settle animations with individual feather settling, wing fold animations on landing, and cascade effects for the stretch animation.
For the helping state, I'm planning continuous gold sparkle particles, though I'll need to work around the pseudo-element limitation. I also want to add street-level feather detail with micro-oscillations, improve the approach bob with better hysteresis and wing flare, and enhance the chirp sound wave rings by adding a third ring with better timing. Finally, I need to add the missing SVG elements to support these new animations.
Looking at what's actually missing from the spec, I've got all 15 animation states, 8 flutter inputs, animation rules, visual effects, and the LOD system covered. The main gap is the SVG asset itself—the spec calls for hundreds of feather paths and thousands of Bézier control points, but I'm currently working with around 30 feather paths. I should focus on the most impactful additions rather than trying to expand the file further.
Now I'm identifying the concrete fixes needed: documenting that .sankofa-bird-chest is the correct class to use, and verifying whether the shadow celebrating rule is truly unique.
For the actual enhancements, I'm planning to add a third chirp ring, iridescent feather bands on the wings, crown feather glow effects, improved wing folding animations, richer helping state visuals, tail feather details at street zoom, and better shadow transitions across all states, plus updated CSS custom properties to support these additions.
I need to use the gitPush callback from the git-remote skill to push these changes to GitHub, since regular git push won't work with credentials.
I'm planning to add more SVG detail like additional chirp rings, iridescent wing covert bands, and crown feather highlights, along with new CSS animations for shimmer effects, wing folding, and crown glow. I'll also fix some documentation issues and enhance the existing animations for better visual richness.
Writing the enhanced SVG and styles... The fill attributes in the regular CSS rules work for static styling but won't animate through keyframes, so I need to focus on concrete fixes rather than overthinking edge cases. My plan is to add new CSS sections for LOD0 iridescent wing effects, enhanced animations for the helping state, improved chirp effects, better perch wing folding, and state machine upgrades—then push everything to GitHub. how to avoid common mistakes in my enhancement work. The user is essentially giving me three guardrails: use the correct class selector for body animations, don't duplicate shadow rules, and avoid fill changes inside keyframes. Now I'm ready to write the enhancement code—I'll add new SVG elements like a third chirp ring, crown feather highlights, and wing covert iridescent bands, then build out the state-machine animations in CSS.
I'm mapping out all the new CSS rules I need to add: animations for the third chirp ring, crown highlights, wing covert iridescence, perch wing folding, particle trails, approach-descent sequences, and LOD0 feather physics improvements. I also need to declare new CSS custom properties. Before I start writing though, I should check the git-remote skill since I'll need to push this to GitHub when I'm done.
Let me scope this realistically—I'll add the most impactful CSS and SVG enhancements that directly address the design spec gaps, test the build, then push everything up and mark this task complete with follow-ups for the remaining work.
Adding SVG elements... Writing SVG and CSS styles... Finishing the keyframe animation and then moving into the actual implementation, adding the third chirp ring, crown highlights, wing covert bands, and feather micro-textures to the SVG. Adding the third chirp ring SVG element... Adding crown tip highlights... Writing wing covert bands... I'm trying to locate the exact tip coordinates for each crown feather by reviewing the SVG paths, but I'm realizing I need to go back and read the full crown feather definitions that were omitted in the earlier sections.

I have the full picture. Three issues to fix in parallel:
1. Dead CSS rule — sankofa-bird-body-group doesn't exist in JSX → retarget to .sankofa-bird-chest
2. Duplicate [data-celebrating] .sankofa-bird-shadow rules (cascade conflict) → merge into one
3. fill inside @keyframes won't animate in all browsers → remove it from keyframes
