Proceed to Build, improve and enhance the svg system beyond rive quality animation complexity with state-machine=style data attribute gating, so the Visual bar far exceeds beyond what a rive file would deliver. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Proceed to Verify Gaps vs. the doc (not yet built): Complete end to end the remaining Sankofa Bird vision from the design docs- rive state machine + photorealisitc feather like rig in improved and enhanced Css form! Push all Sankofa Bird improvmets to the github repo and confirm landing. Review your work and Verify That you Finish and checkpoint this edition of improvements before your usage rate or session percentage runs out! Verify you finish before your session time runs out!Read Verify each and every issue. Ensure you address each and every issue. And Fix, improve and enhance the code if you can. Fix, Improve and enhance and Close each and every and all remaining Gaps end to end, and issues. Fix, Improve and enhance, address all remaining Bugs end to end. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push all improvements and enhancements to repo and verify landing. Verify and ensure that you push all improvements and enhancements to repo. Push and independently confirmed via gitPull that GitHub's main now matches local main exactly. https://github.com/niakofa-cmyk/Niakofa GitHub is confirmed — origin/main, migrate to github script